---
layout: post
title:  "Basic Virtual Machine Setup"
date:   2015-04-20 18:50:00
categories:  labnotes infrastructure
---

I configured Centos7 Minimal on a base image server1 (the installer, anaconda, is pretty slow).
I setup the routing and resolvers, since the dhcp for the internal 192.168.122.0/24 virtual bridge network
didn't correctly supply a working dns server. Once that was working, I updated the hundreds of needed packages
from Centos 7.0 to the current Centos 7.1, and took the first step in cloning this image. The server was set with 1GB Ram, 1 CPU,
and 20GB  disk. "Clone" is a pretty fast operation on these small images. It does not update the hostname or any other network details,
you'll either need to interrupt startup, deal with some quirks, or use other tools to convert these.

Server1 became Client1 and Outsider (in Jang's book, these are the two example.com and one example.org hosts).
These should be on two different networks. Right now, they're all three on a shared default bridged vlan (192.168.122.0), but I created two
additional host-only private lans 192.168.100.0 and 192.168.200.0. I added a second network interface to the two example.com (server and client).
I added the 192.168.200.0 network as a second adapter on the outsider machine.
I confirmed I'm not able to ping from outsider to server1, but client and server are connecting on the private interface.

I think this might be a good way to go to manage this going forward, [open vswitch](http://www.openvswitch.org/).

I will admit, the 'faster reboots' war cry of systemd is completely well founded. If I removed the grub delay, the server would be at a login
prompt in a few seconds. Waiting 5s for confirmation doubles the boot time! Working with kvm, when I deal with Virtuozzo at work and would have thought
xen was the right way to go otherwise is an interesting experience. KVM is on the exam, so it's worth it to get started early.