---
title: Puppet
layout: post
category: 
---

I've started reading Puppet 4 Essentials. I'm trying to set this up on Fedora 24, it seems
like the authors both used wheezy, and installed puppetlabs packages. The path of least 
resistance should have been for me to use ```dnf install puppetserver``` or the like, and I 
did get the master instance in place. Fedora's charming default firewall might be making 
this unpleasant on my end, I'll need to hammer through this. So Fedora specific notes.

* Fedora team seems to have abandoned use (not support) of puppet, see [Fedora Project Infrastructure](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Infrastructure/Puppet)
* The instructions from puppet.com strongly suggest using their yum repo via [rpm](https://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppetlabs-release-pc1-fedora-24.noarch.rpm)

Fedora Infrastructure notes point out these directories and files:

Puppet Master (server):

*    /etc/puppet - Basic puppet configuration information
*    /etc/puppet/manifests - node config mappings
*    /etc/puppet/manifests/filetypes/* - Various filetype definitions
*    /etc/puppet/manifests/nodes/* - Server lists and what classes[1] they use
*    /etc/puppet/manifests/server-groups - Maps services with a server type
*    /etc/puppet/manifests/service-types - Contains each service and whats required for that service
*    /etc/puppet/manifests/site.pp - Contains the 'root' config file which includes other config files
*    /var/lib/puppet/ - Puppet files
*    /var/lib/puppet/config - Config files for our actual nodes (eg httpd.conf)
*   /etc/lib/puppet/bucket - Backup of overwritten config files 

Puppet client

*   /etc/puppet - Basic configuration information
*   /etc/sysconfig/puppet - Puppet startup definitions 


Additionally, while I'm able to run the server directly, the bundled systemd 
file gives a permissions error on /usr/bin/puppet, and I'm suspecting the 
service is set to set the uid to puppet or similar (a service account that is not root). 

```start-puppet-master[8594]: /usr/bin/start-puppet-master: line 8: /usr/bin/puppet: Permission denied```

Root can run the program directly without any error:
```/usr/bin/start-puppet-master master```

It does not look as though there should be any permissions issue:

```
# stat /usr/bin/puppet
  File: '/usr/bin/puppet'
  Size: 161             Blocks: 8          IO Block: 4096   regular file
Device: fd00h/64768d    Inode: 238333      Links: 1
Access: (0755/-rwxr-xr-x)  Uid: (    0/    root)   Gid: (    0/    root)
Context: system_u:object_r:puppetagent_exec_t:s0
Access: 2016-10-08 12:18:36.459333618 -0500
Modify: 2016-02-04 19:29:39.000000000 -0600
Change: 2016-10-02 17:23:49.337433436 -0500
 Birth: -
```

However, all of the puppet config files and directories are set root owned. 
That might include a logging directory, in which case running as root once
might break the non-privileged user forever until that's fixed. 
It's just disheartening that this doesn't work out of the box. 
I might test in jessie later today to get a second opinion.

## Help from the internet

I got an email from someone (Nick Maludy) who stumbled on my page here. It looks like he worked out a solution to the same issue, and that the start-puppet-master script appears to have been the culprit. Here's what he wrote


I actually just figured this out....

/usr/lib/systemd/system/puppetmaster.service by default looks like:
```
[Unit]
Description=Puppet master
Wants=basic.target
After=basic.target network.target

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/puppetmaster
ExecStart=/usr/bin/start-puppet-master master ${PUPPETMASTER_EXTRA_OPTS} --no-daemonize

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```


I installed puppet directly from puppet labs: https://docs.puppet.com/puppet/latest/puppet_collections.html#yum-based-systems

And the same service file looks like: 
```
[Unit]
Description=Puppet master
Wants=basic.target
After=basic.target network.target

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/puppetmaster
ExecStart=/usr/bin/puppet master ${PUPPETMASTER_EXTRA_OPTS} --no-daemonize

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```


I removed the puppet labs version and re-installed the one from EPEL, the modified the service file to use /usr/bin/puppet instead of /usr/bin/start-puppet-master

This solved my issue:
```
● puppetmaster.service - Puppet master
   Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/puppetmaster.service; disabled; vendor preset: disabled)
   Active: active (running) since Fri 2016-12-23 23:22:54 EST; 1s ago
 Main PID: 10696 (puppet)
   CGroup: /system.slice/puppetmaster.service
           └─10696 /usr/bin/ruby /usr/bin/puppet master --no-daemonize

Dec 23 23:22:54 puppetmaster.maludy.home systemd[1]: Started Puppet master.
Dec 23 23:22:54 puppetmaster.maludy.home systemd[1]: Starting Puppet master...
Dec 23 23:22:55 puppetmaster.maludy.home puppet-master[10696]: Starting Puppet master version 3.6.2
```

